hi i'm joel thompson from broadcasting
and cable magazine we're talking about
how you can prepare for the digital
television transition in this segment
john taylor from LG electronics will
provide a demonstration of over the air
digital TV and walk you through the
installation of a digital to analog
converter box which will allow you to
watch digital broadcasts on analog TV
i'm thrilled to be here today to talk
about the digital to analog converter
boxes that will help consumers make this
transition to digital television you
know millions of Americans watch analog
TV today using an antenna this is a 10
year old TV that uses an analog antenna
and as you'll see when as you watch the
various channels in analog it's prone to
snow
and ghosts and interference just
flipping through some of the local
stations some come in better than others
and you can adjust the antenna we've
been doing this since the dawn of
television what digital brings though
will be a crisp picture like a DVD
quality picture and let me show you how
we set that up about three dozen digital
analog converter boxes have been
certified by the NTIA this is the zenith
box one of the most popular ones this is
available through RadioShack Circuit
City and lots of other retailers a very
similar box be available through Best
Buy when you get it home first thing
you'll see when you open it up is a
quick set-up guide ours is in English
and Spanish very simple way to show how
to hook it up in addition of course it
has an operating guide again in English
and Spanish
the box itself is a handsome little
design that fits most decor very simple
to use which I'll show how to install in
just a second it also has included a
remote control including the batteries
as well as all the cables you need to
hook it up an antenna cable as well as
audio/video cables if you'd like stereo
sound connecting your new converter box
is really simple probably the biggest
challenge is turning the year old analog
TV around
so you can get to the to the antenna
inputs now that we've turned the analog
TV around I've plugged in the converter
box and let me show you how easy it is
to hook up first you disconnect the
antenna from the television set and
connect it to the antenna input of the
converter box next we take the antenna
output from the converter box back to
the antenna input of the TV the same way
we've hooked up a VCR for the last 25
years if your analog TV has audio jacks
for stereo sound the converter box will
provide that as well so all you need to
do is hook up the stereo cables to the
left and right output jacks of the box
to the left and right input jacks on
your TV then you'll have stereo sound
now that we've hooked up the converter
box I've turned the TV around again and
let me show you how we scan the channels
first you turn on the converter box turn
on the TV and you want to tune the TV to
channel three or four just like a VCR
first thing you'll see is a quick
install guide a welcome screen and you
just kind of walk through the process
I'm gonna choose English as my language
but this box also has the menus in
Spanish and French to search for
channels you push a button and this will
go through remember this is receiving
digital broadcasting through the same
antenna that this old TV used to receive
the analog broadcasting so right now
it's searching for the new digital
channels searching for the digital
channels takes under a minute and in our
case we found over 25 digital channels
available from here you have a
crystal-clear digital picture remember
the snow the go
the interference we had with the analog
signal now that the digital signal is
coming through the same antenna through
the converter box you get this nearly
DVD quality picture not only is a better
picture but you get more programming so
that's it your digital analog converter
box is really easy to set up so you're
well-prepared for the transition to
digital television on February 17th of
2009 thank you for watching